Native API Gateway Docs (#16365)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/index.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: API Gateways Overview
description: API gateways are objects in Consul that enable ingress requests to services in your service mesh. Learn about API gateways for VMs in this overview.
---

# API Gateway Overview

> API Gateway provides a highly configurable ingress for requests into a Consul
> network. Configuration of this ingress is done across multiple related
> configuration entries. The API gateway itself provides an endpoint for requests
> to enter the network. The Gateway can be configured with listeners that expose
> ports on the endpoint for ingress. HTTP and TCP route configuration entries can
> be attached to these listeners to control how requests are routed to services in
> the network. TLS Certificates can also be attached to gateways to encrypt
> requests between the user and the gateway endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API gateways enable external network clients to access applications and services
running in a Consul datacenter. This type of network traffic is commonly
called _north-south_ network traffic because it refers to the flow of
data into and out of a specific environment. API gateways can also forward
requests from clients to specific destinations based on path or request
protocol.

API gateways solve the following primary use cases:

- Control access at the point of entry: Set the protocols of external connection
  requests and secure inbound connections with TLS certificates from trusted
  providers, such as Verisign and Let's Encrypt.
- Simplify traffic management: Load balance requests across services and route
  traffic to the appropriate service by matching one or more criteria, such as
  hostname, path, header presence or value, and HTTP method.
```

> Because they are separately configured, these configuration entries may be
> easily reused. Routes and certificates may be attached to multiple gateways. API
> gateways are supported for both Virtual Machines and
> [Kubernetes](/consul/docs/api-gateway).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul supports API
gateways for virtual machines and Kubernetes networks. Refer to the following documentation for next steps:
- [API Gateways on VMs](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/usage/index)
- [API Gateways for Kubernetes](/consul/docs/api-gateway).
```

description: API gateways are objects in Consul that enable ingress requests to services in your service mesh. Learn about API gateways for VMs in this overview.
---

# API Gateway Overview

API gateways enable external network clients to access applications and services
running in a Consul datacenter. This type of network traffic is commonly
called _north-south_ network traffic because it refers to the flow of
data into and out of a specific environment. API gateways can also forward
requests from clients to specific destinations based on path or request
protocol.

API gateways solve the following primary use cases:

- Control access at the point of entry: Set the protocols of external connection
  requests and secure inbound connections with TLS certificates from trusted
  providers, such as Verisign and Let's Encrypt.
- Simplify traffic management: Load balance requests across services and route
  traffic to the appropriate service by matching one or more criteria, such as
  hostname, path, header presence or value, and HTTP method.

Consul supports API
gateways for virtual machines and Kubernetes networks. Refer to the following documentation for next steps:

> - [API Gateways on VMs](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/usage/index)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [API Gateways on VMs](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/usage)
```

This seems the right link
